in this tutorial we're going to write
our first plugin it's going to take
about 2 minutes to actually write and
it's a volume control plugin to the way
to get started is by starting a new
project I'm going to click create a new
project and I'm going to name it volume
the project name is volume the object is
going to be named C volume they're in
the volume dot H and the volume dot CPP
files say ok and the compiler will start
up for you I'm using Visual Studio 2008
and this allows me to start my compiler
minimized down below um let's go ahead
and jump to the compiler with the jump
to C++ button and take a look at the
files that were left for us volume DHN
volume dot cpp or where we're going to
be doing all of our work so i'm going to
go back and minimize that and set up the
user interface to do that you right
click anywhere inside of a slider box
you can also right-click around the
other controls here and i'll be showing
how to use this a little bit later on
when we right-click inside of the box
the slider properties dialog pops up and
we can fill this out with the slider
information you can just start typing
right away you don't have to click on
anything and use the return key to
advance to the next cell there's no unit
so I'll just delete it the data type I'm
going to connect the slider to is going
to be a floating point variable and it's
going to be named using my Hungarian
notation that I follow and letter score
death volume you can see the website for
more information about why I named those
funny variable names like that
the low limit is 0 and the high limit is
1 and the initial value will be 0.707 so
set the slider up say ok and the code
has been updated in our compiler if your
compiler is on the desktop it'll
actually flash when when that happened
if your compiler is minimized it'll all
go on pretty much transparently for you
so now that I've got the interface set
up I need to go alter the code to do
some signal processing and I'm going to
use one of these buttons here that
controls the compiler you've got rebuild
a debug and go to C++
so I'm going to click on that to get my
C++ a compiler back and Here I am in
volume dot CPP so I want to navigate to
the process audio frame function this is
the function where all of the work
happens all of the processing so the
process audio frame function has already
been pre-written for me to just pass
data from the input to the output and so
what I want to do is to alter that by
scaling the data using my volume
variable and I'll need to do that three
times because I have three different
plug-in routings a mono and insert a
mono and stereo out aux type and a
stereo and stereo out insert type like
this so that will take care of the three
possible combinations that I had so I'll
go ahead and minimize that again and
rebuild it I'm going to use the rebuild
button from racket FX that'll go ahead
and start the rebuilding in the compiler
and I can follow the build by just
checking on the little box up here and
my rebuild did succeed so the next thing
I'll do is to load the DLL into the
process space and all the other sliders
disappear except for the one that I set
up here it is now on you can see that
it's working and I can also enter
information into the slider by putting
it directly in here at the tab control
and that will enter the data into it so
you can type in very very precise
numbers inside of these boxes when you
need to so let's run some audio through
it
and it's a working volume control so
this is pretty cool because the idea is
that if you can make a volume control
and have it control data in real time
then really you can do whatever you want
it's just a matter of how many
algorithms you've got to go through and
your experience level in doing this so
I'll be adding another button to this
project in the next video that will show
you how to use some of these extra
controls that are on the user interface